Thank you.
Hello and welcome to this special edition of Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turveyville.
And I'm John Bennett, Station Manager and Program Director for KAMU-TV.
It was March 1, 2005 that right here in this studio, we take our very first episode of Veterans of the Valley.
And in that time, we've had the honor to share with you the stories of many military veterans from right here in the Brazos Valley.
This is our 145th original episode of Veterans of the Valley that KAMU has aired in those five plus years.
We've heard in their own words the remarkable stories of service of veterans who have served in World War II and every war since then.
But today, Tom and I will reflect on the show, how it got started, some of the more memorable of those 145 and the impact that you have told us Veterans of the Valley has had on our community in the first five years.
And we're not trying to pat ourselves on the back, John, but more really sort of give tribute to the
over 140 veterans who have sat in that chair that have told us their their story it's it's really been remarkable and like you said the impact that it's had in the community because you and I hear every week from people about boy I like that show or really like that show or I'll tell you somebody you've got to interview it really sort of has had a far-reaching effect there's not a week that goes by time that we don't get a call or somebody on the street says something about being on the show
liking the show, loving the show.
When's the show coming on?
Tom does a great job.
Everybody's got their heart in it.
It's one of the best shows that we've got on KAMU TV.
Sort of tell people sort of the genesis of this show and how it got started.
It was actually
the fall of 2004 and you and I were at a social event together and you kind of cornered me and you kind of came up with this idea.
I had this idea because I listened to you on the radio and I knew your passion was talking about and respecting our veterans.
And I've had this idea for a long time because I never got called to serve.
I fit in that area after Vietnam and before the next war came along, so I never got called.
And I know you had a common experience with that as well.
Your number didn't get picked up.
Right, in the old lottery.
In the old lottery days.
And I felt this need to do something to respect our veterans because here's people that have given their time, their lives.
They've done things to serve our country.
And there are people that have a story to tell.
And I knew that people needed to tell their story.
And from an occurrence with my father in law, Ralph Patterson, we call him Pat Patterson.
Right.
Military man, Marine, career Marine.
And he was telling my son the story of his time in Vietnam.
He did several tours in Vietnam, lost several men under his service.
And when I saw him begin to become emotional about telling his story, I began to understand that this is something he's never told anyone before.
and there's a need for other men and women to do the same thing.
And I thought, who better to do this job than Tom Turveyville?
So when I saw you at that reception, I think it took five seconds, and you said, absolutely, count me in.
You bet, and you and I had a meeting later on, and we sort of pounded out the details of it.
And sure enough, like you said, March 1st of 2005 is when we taped the first show with Dr. Jim Cooper.
who by the way dr jim cooper is the only veteran that we've had on twice on this two different episodes of this show i think about two years ago we had him back again to sort of talk about the beginnings of the of the veteran show so he's been a big part of this show but like you said john i did not serve either in the military i was during the days of the during vietnam when they had the first draft lottery and i was
Fortunate, I guess, if that's the word, that my birthday did not come up early.
So I stayed in school and didn't serve.
But I, like you, had family.
My mother's first husband was a Navy pilot instructor who was killed in World War II, actually.
Yeah, he was in service.
Exactly.
And my mother remarried, and that's how I came along from that second marriage.
But again, the passion...
that i've had has really sort of grown from that from hearing stories from my mother of her first husband and his world war ii service but we've had a lot of great great veterans on this show and some of them that we might go ahead and talk about from the outset we had a show just a few weeks ago a memorial day special talking about
some of the veterans who we've lost that have been on the show.
And that number is 11 now that are no longer with us.
But we knew, of course, that that would happen with so many World War II veterans that have sat in that chair.
That's right.
It's inevitable that it's going to happen.
Indeed.
But we feel honored that we can have the privilege to capture their memory.
I think about my family.
My father, he was boot camp prepared to go to Korea but never had to.
I never knew much about that as I was growing up.
Through my wife's side of the family, we have someone in every branch of the military except for the Coast Guard, I think.
I've had my little brother Thunderbirds, a very distinguished service, but they never talk about it much.
To have a man sit here and talk about his story, and this is something that is near the end of their life before they begin to realize they need to say that part of their life.
And for you to get that information out of them is no small task.
Indeed, because it's there forever and it's very important for their families, especially those that we've lost.
And certainly there will be those who will go after them, too, that, again, have been here and told their stories.
The oldest veteran that we've had on this show, as a matter of fact,
is Sharon Colson's uncle, Eddie Thompson, who was, I believe, 98 years old when he was on our show.
He passed away just a few days shy of 100 years old, but he was
He was one of our first veterans and the first one who actually passed away.
Speck Gammon, who was the old sports information director at Texas A&M, who actually, I followed him in that same position at Texas A&M when I first came to town in 1984.
He was on our show, Raymond Schultz, Tom Browning, Rich Thomas, a Korean War veteran who we lost in 2008.
Jim West was really a tragic story of his death.
Jim was a Vietnam veteran, just that chiseled look Vietnam veteran.
If you were going to do a poster boy of the Vietnam Marine, he was the guy.
He won three Purple Hearts.
He would only accept two of them because the reason he only accepted two of the Purple Hearts, and I'll never forget him telling me this, was because he didn't want his mother to get that third knock on the door.
to tell her that his son had been wounded again in Vietnam.
She got two knocks on the door to say or letters.
But didn't want his mother to get that third knock on the door, so he refused his third Purple Heart so she wouldn't get the word.
We had Jim on the show, and just a few weeks after we recorded the show, just a very freakish thing, he was bit by a rattlesnake on his farm, and he died from the rattlesnake bite.
And that was just one of the more shocking deaths to me.
To go through the war.
To go through the war and a rattlesnake.
And then a rattlesnake gets you at home.
Right, he was a former sheriff out in Madison County.
Calvin Boykin Jr.
was the first veteran who told us a story that couldn't be told in 30 minutes.
I had to do a two-parter with Cal Boykin because he was a tank commander in World War II.
Tremendous story.
Never forget Albert Novak, a fellow who served in the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, all three branches of the military.
One of Albert's
family one of his nephews called me up one day and said would you put my uncle on his on your show he's got he's got pancreatic cancer and he doesn't have long to live and he's just a ball of fire and I'd love for him to tell the story and sure enough I went over I talked to Al we visited I went and picked him up we came back we did the show we put the show on quickly because we knew that Al was very sick
Al got to see the show.
His family got to see the show with him.
And sure enough, just a couple of weeks after that, you know, we did lose him.
And Dick Davidson, what a tremendous personality.
World War II ground soldier.
who told us about something called Operation Keelhaul in World War II that I'd never known about.
And David West, U.S.
Navy veteran from Navasota, who just passed away this last April, as a matter of fact.
And just a few days ago, before we're taping this show, we lost our city councilman, Larry Stewart.
who was a veteran, who was one of our guests on this show.
He was my neighbor and good friend.
Right.
U.S.
Navy.
And of course, we all miss Larry, who just passed away.
So, you know, for those that have passed and those that are still with us, we certainly thank
all of them that have sat in that chair as a matter of fact.
You've got to have great respect and admiration for every person that's done that.
Man, woman, whomever they are, they've done something that I've never gotten to do.
And I have such admiration for what they've done to protect my freedoms and your freedoms and
give us the ability to be here today to do this kind of a program and everything else we do in our lives.
I know you spend a lot of time with these people, Tom, when you interview them, prepare for the show.
I do, and that is really one of the most thrilling things about being able to do this show.
The 28 and a half minutes that we spend here on the set with the cameras and the lights, that's a neat thing.
That's just a little piece of what really happens.
That's just a little piece of what really happens because every one of the veterans who have appeared on this show
I've had the opportunity to go to their home a few days before we taped the show and sit down in their living room or at their kitchen table and sit and talk to them for an hour, hour and a half, couple of hours, even as long as three hours with some of them, and really just hear their story, their whole story about their service and about their families and how they grew up and how they got into the service.
and their close calls and their relationship with their families and their military mates and the people that they still keep in contact with.
And these are just remarkable stories that I've had the sense to record with a little digital recorder.
And I've got all of those archived, all of those long form conversations with every one of our veterans.
And that's been the really neat thing is to be able to go to their homes and talk to them to sort of get an idea.
and sort of get to sort of the you know the behind the scenes of what we do.
What I'll do is I'll go and I'll visit with these veterans and I'll record our whole conversation and then I will go home and on the day that we record the show that morning I'll re-listen to our whole conversation and I'll take notes.
and I'll type notes and I'll print them out and those are all the papers that you see on the table on the desk all the time.
Those are the notes that I have to sort of lead him in the conversation with the show.
So that's sort of how it works and I get a chance to visit with all of those veterans.
And that's a special time for you too.
Oh yeah.
Because you get something that the rest of us don't get in that
up to three hour long time.
Right.
Because we have to squeeze that into less than 30 minutes.
In most cases.
That's a tough job.
And in a lot of cases, I know immediately when I'm visiting with them that this is going to be a double episode or a two-part episode.
I know immediately that it is because their stories are so compelling that there's no way that we can do justice to their story in just one program.
And those are the programs like Dick Davidson or like
Calvin Boykin, other stories that we've run into two parts because their stories are just worth that much time on the TV.
And there's some that I could have done three or four parts.
Like Al Meyer, who spent six years as a POW in Vietnam.
People like that.
Things like that, experiences we never hope we have to have.
But these men have done that.
They've lived through it.
They brought the stories back.
And somehow you also bring in a little bit of their personal life.
We see a little glimpse of family.
in addition to the war story.
When we have time at the end, I like to do that when we do because to talk about their kids and their grandkids and their spouses.
And many of these World War II veterans have been married more than once.
Their wife either passed away and they've remarried some of them in a lot of cases.
And these are interesting stories too.
Men or women who have...
who have had more than one true love in their life.
And these are fun stories to hear that they have found life again after they may have lost a spouse after their service, say, in World War II.
Well, they're real people.
They're like us.
They've got a life.
They've got family.
And it's more than guns and bullets and tanks and planes and things like that.
That's the fun, sensational part.
But to go home to a family, that's the hard part to go home and have to maybe not talk about your story.
Right, right.
One guy I need to mention.
And there's so many people that we can mention in our little 28 and a half minutes that we don't get much time here.
We don't get much time.
But one guy I've got to mention is sort of this whole thing started for me on the radio in 1999 on WTAW with a show that I do called Bravo Brazos Valley, where every week I would feature a veteran.
And that's how this all got started and what you heard on the radio.
And that's how we did it.
And that all got started on the back porch of a fellow named Al Hanson.
Al Tex Hanson.
They call him Uncle Al.
He still lives here in Bryan.
He's just a delightful gentleman and one of my very closest friends.
I love Al to death.
And one day I was invited to Al's Back Porch.
That was a special time.
That was a great place to be was Al's Back Porch because it's there that
A lot of his World War II veterans get together on his back porch and just tell lies and tell the truth and tell all the stories of World War II and their experiences and just sitting there and listening to them all.
And that's where I first met Al Hanson.
That's where I first met Dr. Jim Cooper, Glenn Morgan, who served on the USS Indianapolis.
He was the bugler.
He was the bugler on the USS Indianapolis and spent five nights floating in the Pacific until they were rescued.
E.S.
Edmunds who worked in the Pentagon,
I'm forgetting some of the names of the people that I met on Uncle Al's back porch.
But, yeah, that was a great place to be.
But that's sort of where my passion for Brazos Valley veterans were born on Al's back porch.
So, Al, if you're watching, thank you very much.
I love you more, buddy.
And thanks a lot for sort of being there and getting me started on all of this.
That's a time where guys can just be guys.
Yeah.
Whether it's truth or not, the stories are always...
They're always better the second time around.
And they're mostly true.
That's right.
They're usually lying when they're talking about the girlfriends is what they're doing, you know, or their wives.
But a lot of great people that I met on there.
We've got some photographs, and these photographs are really of no one in particular, no people in particular, but just photographs that sort of represent those who I've interviewed.
And these are...
Old World War II photographs and some even newer.
This is James Wade, who was one of our guests here.
He fought in Europe in World War II.
And the interesting thing with James Wade is that part of his duty was to pull guard duty over the witnesses of the Nuremberg trials.
And that was just a part of his story that was incredible.
And this is a picture of him in Germany when he was pulling that duty, guarding the witnesses of the Nuremberg trial.
And...
He had a story one time of how he had to fight off a crazed German and fell in self-defense combat.
But that's James Wade from the Brazos Valley.
This is Jim Robbins.
Grew up in Corpus Christi.
He was a Vietnam helicopter pilot.
He flew Hueys and Loaches.
First Cav.
If you saw the movie, We Were Soldiers and the Helicopter Pilots, well, that's what Jim Robbins did.
He was a chopper pilot that flew into the Que Son Valley and other hot spots of Vietnam.
So you talk about a real Vietnam hero.
That's Jim Robbins.
Yolanda Kozlowski, one of the female veterans that we've had on our show.
She was part of the 100th evac hospital, attached to Patton's army.
She was one of the first people to treat wounded soldiers in World War II and triage.
Some amazing stories to tell.
And she had to make some difficult decisions of life and death and who could be treated and who couldn't be treated during World War II.
She's a remarkable lady.
And her husband, Ed Kozlowski, also was one of our veteran guests here on Veterans of the Valley.
This is H.J.
Marsh.
And I've included this picture because what a good looking soldier that guy is.
You talk about, you think he had any trouble getting dates when he was young?
I bet not.
He probably did pretty good.
And H.J.
fought both in World War II and in Korea.
End of World War II and the Korean War.
This is Hazel Von Rader who did not serve overseas but she did serve as a nurse at Fort Bliss at the Beaumont Hospital there in Fort Bliss and then later she flew on airplanes that went out and got wounded soldiers
uh, and brought them back to San Antonio, to Fort Sam Houston.
And she used to, she would treat soldiers and nurses who were part of, uh, Corregidor and, uh,
Bataan in Japan and in Manila and the Philippines.
Quite a lady who lives in Bryan.
And that's Hazel.
This is Dr. Jim Cooper in his younger days, our very first veteran on Veterans of the Valley.
Looks like a spry young man there.
Dr. Jim, yeah.
He was a Navy doctor and a personal physician to many a famous admiral and military man when he was stationed in Washington and on board ship.
Dr. Jim is very special, and he's my doctor also, and still practicing.
Norman Beale from the Brazos County.
He's 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines, assault on Korea.
Never forgotten the horror and the cold of the winter when he scaled the beaches at Inchon.
Norman and his wife, Wanda, live in the country with a
couple of their friendly dogs, and he was one of our more recent guests on Veterans of the Valley.
Next is Cal Boykin, the late Cal Boykin, 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion, who was one of our two-part episodes.
His daughter, Ann Boykin, runs Project Hold over at the City of College Station.
And we lost Cal just about a year ago, but he was a tank commander in World War II and a very, very interesting fellow.
This next picture is one of my favorite pictures that we've ever put on Veterans of the Valley because it tells a story.
This is Gary Banta, who is the commander of the American Legion Post here in Bryant College Station, Earl Graham Post 159.
He served in Vietnam in truck convoys delivering supplies to hotspots.
And John, if a picture ever told a story of a young, lonely Vietnam soldier a long, long way from home,
and wondering what the heck is next coming for me in my life, this picture tells it.
This tells the story of the lonely, brave, but somewhat scared soldier in Vietnam.
That is it right there, because here's the man by himself.
And you can see it in his eyes.
You can.
What is going to happen?
That's right.
Where am I and when will I be home?
That's Gary Banta.
Mike Guidry, good buddy of mine.
This is one of our Iraq veterans who served in Iraq in a CB battalion.
They built stuff in Iraq, built stuff for Marine outfits.
So he was a Navy CB and he's still a good friend of mine.
And he works over at Texas A&M and has a baby and a baby on the way.
and good friends of mine.
Ray Akins is on the right.
Ray Akins, a remarkable story.
He fought in the Pacific's bloodiest battle of World War II, 82 days fighting at Okinawa, 1st Marine Division.
He was on the third wave to storm the beach in April of 1945.
And Ray really has three stories, and you might be able to tell from that picture.
One of his stories is, matter of fact, let's go to the next picture.
One of his stories is for 36 years, he was one of the legendary football coaches in Texas, high school football coaches at Gregory Portland.
And this picture is taken when they named the Gregory Portland Wildcat Stadium after him just about a year ago.
And the people in the previous picture and this picture, you may recognize the fellow on the left.
because he had a pretty good year in athletics this last year.
That's Drew Brees, and that's Ray Aiken's grandson.
He did okay.
Super Bowl MVP.
And the fellow on the right is Marty Aikens.
That's Drew's uncle, who was a quarterback at the University of Texas.
Darryl Royals, last All-American quarterback, as a matter of fact.
And Ray Akins not only had the story of service in Okinawa in World War II, but some great stories as a high school football coach and being Drew Brees' uncle.
Proud family picture right there.
And he also told a story, quite matter-of-factly, about how both the University of Texas and Texas A&M passed on him in recruiting.
Didn't think he really fit in either program, so he went to Purdue and played football instead.
And we all know what happened.
He won the Super Bowl and became the MVP.
Well, we don't.
Hit it all the time.
We don't hit them all the time.
This is Al Meyer, one of our most compelling stories.
Al spent six years as a POW in Vietnam, and this was him returning from being a POW, returning to the United States, getting off the plane, and being greeted.
We have some more pictures coming up.
This is a sketch that depicted Al at the Hanoi Hilton, and some of the treatment that they received at the Hanoi Hilton.
That was a sketch.
Folks, welcoming Al home.
Al was an Aggie class of 1960, is an Aggie class of 1960, and his last picture was him greeting his wife, Bobby, when he came home from six years as a POW in Vietnam.
And just recently, John, of course, Kyle Netterville and I got the opportunity to go on the Lone Star Honor Flight with about 100 veterans from the area.
to Washington, D.C.
And some of the pictures from that that we just had to show, that was Jim Cooper that you just saw.
That's me at the World War II Memorial.
Frank Coachman is on the left.
Joe Hanover is next to him and then myself.
And then Frank Lederich, to all the three who have been guests on Veterans of the Valley.
That was the entire group saluting at Arlington National Cemetery there.
And just to show that we really did work
me taping a promo there in front of the Iwo Jima Memorial there in Washington, D.C.
So that's just some of the photographs.
It's sort of representative of sort of what we've done here on Veterans of the Valley.
There's so many other pictures we could have shown.
Yeah, that's the thing.
There's so much to talk about and so much we have to sift through.
there's so many people that have served and that's just here in the brazos valley right we didn't even begin to think about the state the country all the hundreds and hundreds of men that could have been on this program right you had to choose among these 145 so far that's right and there's still a lot more to go i mean this i don't want people to think that just because we're doing this show here all we're doing is just uh recognizing our first five years on the on the air we're not going away
I want another five years and another five years after that, and then somebody by then will take my place here in this seat and hope that they just keep going and going and going.
Because we want to get those World War II veterans on, obviously, because we're losing them, what do they say, at the rate of a thousand a day.
Yeah, it's way too fast.
That's the sad part.
We're not going away.
That's the good news.
The sad news is we're not going away.
There's that many more men that have paid this price and have done...
these wonderful things for us.
Indeed.
People ask me who are some of the more memorable people that we've had on the show.
You know, where do you start?
Ed Eyre was a Marine who actually was there on D-Day at Iwo Jima and who stormed the beach with the Marines and was there at the taking of Mount Suribachi and when the flag was lifted.
at the top of Mount Suribachi.
He was there.
He didn't witness the flag lifting because he was fighting the war.
He was kind of busy that day.
He was kind of busy.
General John Miller, Lieutenant General, Commanding General, Fleet Marine Force, Atlantic Commanding General,
has been on the show.
Ken Loveless, helicopter chopper pilot in Vietnam.
And all these guys live here, right where we live.
That's the interesting part about this.
These guys live here.
It's not like it's in a book somewhere.
They live here.
They're your neighbors.
They're your people that you're checking out next to in the grocery store.
They're the people that you see in the movies and at the library.
And they are our neighbors.
And a lot of people that you go to church with,
And a lot of the people, I get a lot of comments saying, hey, I've lived next door to that guy for 10 years and I never knew that story.
That's why I think we're so relevant, though.
And one thing you and I discussed earlier is, and this is sort of an amazing deal, too, is a lot of these people, for whatever reason, will tell their stories to me, a person that they've just met, pretty much a stranger.
And these are stories that they have not been able to tell to their own families or their own families haven't thought to ask.
And I've had a lot of family members come to me and said, my dad or my granddad said some things to you that we were able to capture on Veterans of the Valley that we've never heard before.
And now because of that, because they have the DVD of the show, they'll be able to take that DVD and hand it down to his kids, grandkids, great grandkids, and it'll be there forever.
And that's something that's so special to us because they might never have told that story at all.
They really may not have.
So thanks to you, they've been able to express that.
Indeed.
And again, our 28 and a half minutes is over.
So we've got to go.
But it's been a great time.
You know, I would like to consider that these first five years of Veterans of the Valley are a pretty good start.
But I know that there are lots of stories of service out there still left to tell.
We'd like to give a special thanks to the student production assistants, not only those working this program you're watching right now, those many young men and women who've come and gone over the last five years.
They worked so hard to help produce this show.
And my own sincere thanks to Dr. Rod Zent, to John Bennett, Kyle Netterville, Sandra Harris.
Special thanks to Walter Sanchez and the rest of the staff here at KAMU for making Veterans of the Valley what we always wanted it to be.
So for John Bennett, I'm Tom Turveyville.
Join us next week.
We'll start the next five years of Veterans of the Valley.